This week I used a Graphing Database to solve a series of problems. The Graphing Database I used Neo4j in the Cypher query language.

Instructions for Exercise 6:

Exercise 6.1:

Go to GraphStory.com and make a new account. Create a graph database. Go to the Neo4j Web UI for your new graph. Log in with the autogenerated username and password from Graph Story.

Start by removing all the data by running the following Cypher query:

MATCH (n)-[r]-() WHERE ID(n)>=0 DELETE n;

Now load the data into the database using the code given here: http://pastebin.com/raw.php?i=4VFY4a2b (this should be done in multiple commands, a new one everytime there is a double line break).

Exercise 6.2:

The customer with customerID ALFKI has made a number of orders containing some products. Return all the orders made by ALFKI and the products they contain.

Exercise 6.3:

The customer with customerID ALFKI has made a number of orders containing some products. Return orders made by ALFKI that contain at least 2 products. Also return the products.

Exercise 6.4:

Determine how many and who has ordered “Uncle Bob’s Organic Dried Pears” (productID 7).

Exercise 6.5:

How many different and which products have been ordered by customers who have also ordered “Uncle Bob’s Organic Dried Pears”?

Exercise 6.6:

Of those products ordered by customers who have also ordered “Uncle Bob’s Organic Dried Pears”, which one has been ordered the most (by the same set of customers).

Exercise 6.7:

The customer with customerID ALFKI has bought a series of products. Determine which other customers have bought most of the same products.
